IX - IN THE SHADOW OF RAMPARTS
(INSECTS CHIRPING)
- MÉLIE: The first rule of survival
is hitting between the legs.
- AMICIA: Wouldn't the head be quicker?
- MÉLIE: You're way too soft.
Shh... There is the town ramparts.
- AMICIA: What's that crowd on the bridge?
- MÉLIE: It's the ... They're being evacuated.
- AMICIA: Let me guess...
The Bite's here.
- MÉLIE: Exactly.
And when there's The Bite,
you'll also find...
- AMICIA: (CONTINUES)
...The Inquisition.
- MÉLIE: Aren't you the smart one.
No!
- AMICIA: Did you know him?
- MÉLIE: A thief.
I used to work with him.
He was gifted.
- AMICIA: So that's the punishment
for stealing.
Death.
- MÉLIE: I don't want to find Arthur
with that kind of collar.
- AMICIA: Come on.
Let's go.
Over to you, Mélie.
- MÉLIE: I'll open this...
...then I'll go take care of Arthur.
- AMICIA: Alright, so...
Where will I find the university?
- MÉLIE: It's a big building
at the other end.
You can't miss it.
- AMICIA: Do you think...
We'll see each other again?
- MÉLIE: I hope so.
You owe me.
Shit.
That means you're not allowed to die.
- AMICIA: (SCOFFS)
I'll do my best.
- MÉLIE: There you go. Go on.
Get going.
(DOOR CREAKING)
Good luck.
- AMICIA: You too.
(DOOR CREAKING)
(DOOR SHUTS)
(DISTANT CHATTER)
Those bastards.
What were they doing?
Wow...
Over there.
That must be the university.
All that light. I don't like this.
Right.
It's way ... But you can do this.
Here we go.
- SOLDIER: Hey, you in there!
This is your last warning
before we drag you out on your arse.
(INAUDIBLE)
Bloody ...
- AMICIA: Careful.
- SOLDIER: Last call.
By order of the Grand Inquisitor Vitalis.
Martial law is in ...
And the city under the control
of The Inquisition.
Any people who choose to remain
will be arrested.
And executed.
- AMICIA: Martial law?
Unbelievable!
Why now?
(RATS SQUEAKING)
- SOLDIER: What was that noise?
- SOLDIER: That noise...
I think it came from over there.
Nothing to report.
Again?
That's not right.
I'll go and see.
I don't know where I am.
Maybe ... still alive.
- SOLDIER: ... and keep quiet.
- AMICIA: What's going on?
- WOMAN: No!
He is my husband!
- SOLDIER: He was your husband.
It's all over for him now so get lost!
- WOMAN: But by myself...
(SOBBING)
I can't leave without him...
- SOLDIER: Shut up!
You heard the martial law?
Wanna die before he does?
- AMICIA: Oh my goodness.
- SOLDIER: Listen to him.
Fuck off! Now!
- WOMAN: Oh lord! Lord!
- SOLDIER: Urhh... I'm tired of your bullshit.
I didn't sign up for this.
- AMICIA: Urghh... God...
(RATS SQUEAKING)
- SOLDIER: Hey.
Where is the hanging man?
- AMICIA: Oh no.
- SOLDIER: Uh... That was the noise...
And those fucking rats
are there already to eat him.
Well... I see something
I can pinch around here.
- AMICIA: Ugh... When will it stop?
They've all been executed.
(DISTANT CHATTER)
Alright... Stay calm...
Think of Hugo...
###
- SOLDIER: For god's sake, what now?
Better go and see.
Nah, still nothing.
I'm not mad, am I?
- AMICIA: ###
Ugh...
It's sticky.
- SOLDIER: Nah, nothing. Nothing here.
- AMICIA: (EXHALES) I made it.
Ugh... But I'll never forget the smell.
The university! See!
Keep going. The cementery.
It's on the way.
I really don't want to go through there.
Locked.
If only Mélie was here.
Come on, there has to be another way to get in.
The Inquisition must have put it here.
Looks like it's ###.
Huh, clever.
The Grand Inquisitor doesn't ###.
- MAN: What? Hey! What the hell!
(SCREAMING)
- AMICIA: That'll teach you!
(BODY THUDS)
A window. Perfect!
Let's get out of here.
- SOLDIER 1: Magister. The Episanguis.
- ALCHEMIST: Hah... Let's see...
(CHEMICAL SIZZLING)
Perfect.
- SOLDIER 2: If I ###...
We know it comes from those rats but...
What's it for?
- ALCHEMIST: We call this Odoris.
- SOLDIER 2: Woah...
- SOLDIER 1: Urgh...
- ALCHEMIST: That is just
one of the effects of the Episanguis...
...when we mix it with sulphur.
But that's not what we're interested in.
- SOLDIER 2: But... So why don't we
let our units use it, eh?
It could...
- ALCHEMIST: It is too precious!
Each Episanguis crystal
must be kept for our project.
Particularly as... in this form.
It has been a source of some...
How should I say...
"Regrettable accidents."
Deliver it the bastion.
That is enough for today.
- SOLDIER 2: "Regrettable accidents?"
- SOLDIER 1: Imagine you spill some on your feet...
You have to do your patrol on your eyes.
(BOTH CHUCKLE)
(GATE CLOSES)
- AMICIA: Episanguis... What's that?
I need to see this.
They're gone. ### Just a cementery.
What are you so excited about?
Well well...
So this is Episanguis.
Right. Episanguis... Sulphur...
We have to crust them up together.
Now, we just have to try it now.
Lucas, this one is for you.
It's working!
This will save my life!
I need to find more.
Remember, the effect doesn't last long.
Over there. It looks like the exit.
Come on. It's not that far.
The ground is collapsed.
I need to find something to ### myself up.
A cart.
If I could get it down there,
I could climb on it.
Odoris won't keep them in there for long.
I need to block them once and for all.
Now, the lantern. Quickly.
Yes!
Alright, please tell me this can still roll.
Oh, oh no!
That was... very discreet.
Right, now just a bit more.
You see? You're doing it!
You're getting there!
My god. What happened here?
I'm getting closer.
The ### really exists, Lucas.
Oh Lord.
The sick... they slaughtered them.
- MAN: (GROANS)
The rats... (COUGHS) They...
They unleashed the rats.
Help me!
- AMICIA: I can't!
I'm sorry!
I can't believe it!
They used the rats...
against the sick!
- SOLDIER: Dirty little beasts!
- AMICIA: The Odoris... I could try...
It worked.
- MAN: Why?
- SOLDIER: Because it's too late for you!
Call it mercy!
But don't worry.
All the others will soon be saved.
(DISTANT CHATTERING)
- SOLDIER: Huh? What's all that noise?
- AMICIA: Why are they still here?
### Episanguis... Cages...
This is just not an evacuation.
- MAN: You there... I'm burning up!
Inside!
Tell me what to do!
- AMICIA: I... I don't know.
Water!
Oh no! Don't drink that!
Urgh... This is a nightmare!
Come on.
Be brave.
The university must be close.
(DISTANT HORN SOUND)
- MAN 1: He's coming!
### Vitalis' coming.
- MAN 2: The Grand Inquisitor is here!
Vitalis. The butcher
who killed my father works for you.
His blood is on your hands too.
Yes! Finally!
What on earth are they doing here?
- SOLDIER 1: Shit! I really thought
I was going to thump one of those alchemists.
- SOLDIER 2: ###. They're a bit ###
but at least they know how to read.
- SOLDIER 1: That doesn't give them the right
to act like arseholes!
Anyway...
One of them said Vitalis isn't doing...
- SOLDIER 2: ### coming.
We'll have to pray for him.